---
layout: page.njk
tags: pages
title: There is decent contrast for reading text (minimum 4.5:1 ratio for standard text, 3:1 for large text)

conformanceLevel:
  - AA
description:
  - There is decent contrast for reading text (minimum 4.5:1 ratio for standard text, 3:1 for large text)
filters:
interaction:
  - Contrast
knowledgeToTest:
  - Easy
principal:
  - Perceivable
priority:
responsibility:
  - Designer
severity:
  - Moderate
successCriteria:
  - 1.4.3 Contrast (Minimum)
testProcedure:
  - ARC Toolkit
  - Colour Contrast Analyser
  - Firefox
  - Manual
  - Some support from tools
timeToTest:
  - Medium
topic:
  - Colour
  - Text colour
understandingScURL:
  - https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/contrast-minimum.html
userImpact:
  - Text must meet a minimum contrast ratio to ensure users – especially those with low vision – can read comfortably
order:
  - 17
---

# {{ title }}

## Design Notes

### Ensure text has sufficient contrast

Ensure there is strong contrast between foreground and background colours helps ensure people can read content comfortably. Ensure the colour contrast between the text colour and background colour meets the following minimum ratios:

- Small text is **4.5:1** — text smaller than 24px or 19px if bold
- Large text is **3:1** — text larger than 24px or 19px if bold.

For *improved* results, opt for the following ratios:

- Small text is **7:1** – text smaller than 24px or 19px if bold
- Large text is **4.5:1** – text larger than 24px or 19px if bold.

Use a tool which calculates the ratio between the text colour and background colour. All colour combinations should be tested prior to the approval of designs.

#### More information

- [Tool: Colour contrast checker](https://developer.paciellogroup.com/resources/contrastanalyser/)

## Developer Notes

### Ensure colour contrast requirements are met

Before implementing a design ensure that it meets colour contrast requirements.

#### Contrast Minimum

People with partial sight often have difficulty reading text if the colour contrast between foreground and background colours is not sufficient.

Using colours that contrast well makes it much easier for people to read content comfortably.

- Small text is **4.5:1** — text smaller than 24px or 19px if bold
- Large text is **3:1** — text larger than 24px or 19px if bold.

#### Non-Text Contrast

Active user interface components and meaningful non text graphics should be distinguishable by people with visual impairments.

- The minimum contrast for such components is **3:1**.

#### Information and tools

- [Tool: Colour Contrast Analyser](https://developer.paciellogroup.com/resources/contrastanalyser/)

## Testing Notes

### There is decent contrast for reading text

The visual presentation of text and images of text has a contrast ratio of at least 4.5:1, except for the following:

- Large Text: Text and images of large-scale text have a contrast ratio of at least 3:1;
- Incidental: Text or images of text that are part of an inactive user interface component,
that are pure decoration, that are not visible to anyone, or that are part of a picture that
contains significant other visual content, have no contrast requirement.
- Logotypes: Text that is part of a logo or brand name has no contrast requirement

Large text = 18 point (24px) or 14 point (18px) bold

Steps to check: Identify different colour combinations for text, check each with a tool

**Impact range:** Medium

**Test type:** Semi-automated ([aXe browser extension](https://www.deque.com/axe/browser-extensions/) will identify contrast issues but identifying *all* issues and validating requires manual review)

**Tool:** [Colour Contrast Analyser](https://developer.paciellogroup.com/resources/contrastanalyser/)

**WCAG Reference:** [Understanding Success Criterion 1.4.3: Contrast (Minimum)]({{ understandingScURL }})
