---
layout: page.njk
tags: pages
title: Animation respects reduce-motion settings

conformanceLevel:
  -
description:
  - Animation respects reduce-motion settings
filters:
  - Best practice
interaction:
  - Cognition
knowledgeToTest:
  -
principal:
  - Operable
priority:
  -
responsibility:
  - Developer
severity:
  -
successCriteria:
  -
testProcedure:
  - Manual
  - Visual inspection
timeToTest:
  -
topic:
  - Movement and animation
understandingScURL:
  - https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/pause-stop-hide.html
userImpact:
  -
---

# {{ title }}

Moving, blinking, scrolling, or auto-updating information are all under users control

## Design Notes

### Provide a way to stop content that moves for more than 5 seconds

Moving, scrolling, blinking or automatically updating content can be very distracting for some users, particularly those with cognitive impairments. In some cases, it may prevent people from completing tasks. Moving content can also cause problems for those using screen reading software as they may not be able to access this type of content at all.

Any content that moves more more than 5 seconds needs a mechanism to pause/stop it. Include such a control in designs to ensure this is not missed in development.

## Developer Notes

### Ensure animations can be stopped by users

Moving, scrolling, blinking or automatically updating content can be very distracting for some people, particularly those with cognitive impairments. In some cases, it may prevent people from using the page. Moving content can also cause problems for those using screen reading software as they may not be able to access this type of content at all.

A common example of such an issue is the auto-rotating carousel. Where possible, avoid implementing such components. If a component which animates must be used, ensure a pause / stop button is provided and ensure this button is accessible to all users.

## Testing Notes

None
