---
layout: page.njk
tags: pages
title: The visible label must be included in the accessible name (mostly applies to images and where labels are over-ridden)

conformanceLevel:
  - A
description:
  - The visible label must be included in the accessible name (mostly applies to images and where labels are over-ridden)
filters:
  -
interaction:
  - Screen reader
  - Speech recognition
knowledgeToTest:
  - Medium
principal:
  - Operable
priority:
  - Uncommon issue
responsibility:
  - Developer
severity:
  - Severe
successCriteria:
  - 2.5.3 Label in Name
testProcedure:
  - Manual
  - Some support from tools
timeToTest:
  - Medium
topic:
  - Visible labels
  - Accessible names
  - Code
understandingScURL:
  - https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/label-in-name.html
userImpact:
  -
---

# {{ title }}

## Design Notes

### Don’t unnecessarily override visible labels using aria-label

Ensure the visible label and underlying accessible name for interactive controls is consistent. This consistency helps ensure users of voice recognition software can operate interfaces successfully and avoids issues with screen reader users being presented with a label that does not make sense.

It is not necessary to provide aria labels which duplicate the text visible in an interface. If there is a visible text label it is rarely necessary to provide an aria-label with different text.

Adding redundant aria labels increases the likelihood of mis-matches over time as content editors may change visible text labels but may forget, or not be able, to update aria labels.

## Developer Notes

### Use aria-label appropriately - ensure visible labels are correctly exposed to assistive technologies

Ensure user interface components with visible labels also have an accessible name which is accurate and matches what is presented visually.

This helps speech input users who interact with components on the page by speaking the visible text labels.

Only use aria label where it is absolutely required. If there is a visible text label for a control, an aria label is likely to be redundant.

Chrome's accessibility inspector (the Accessibility pane within the Elements Panel) can be used to inspect the accessible name of an element.

#### Information and tools

- [ARIA Labels and Relationships](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/accessibility/semantics-aria/aria-labels-and-relationships)
- Tool: [View an element's computed accessibility properties](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-devtools/accessibility/reference#computed)

## Testing Notes

### The visible label must be included in the accessible name

Do not override visible labels with aria-label/labelledby

For user interface components with labels that include text or images of text, the name contains the text that is presented visually.

#### Steps to check

- MacOS has accessibility settings to highlight the accessible name using ‘hover’ in Safari, look for ‘hover text’
    - This can also be turned on at a system level via MacOS Catalina Accessibility Settings > Zoom > Enable Hover Text
- If familiar with Chrome Developer Tools (Firefox will be similar), inspect and element and review 'Name' details in the 'Computer Properties' section of the Accessibility Tab

**Impact range:** Medium

**Test type:** Manual

**Information:** [Use Hover Text on Mac](https://support.apple.com/lv-lv/guide/mac-help/mchlb203bc78/mac)

**Tool:** [View an element's computed accessibility properties](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-devtools/accessibility/reference#computed)

**WCAG Reference:** [Understanding Success Criterion 2.5.3: Label in Name](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/label-in-name.html)
