---
layout: page.njk
tags: pages
title: Changing a widget (e.g. drop down) doesn't automatically take you somewhere else

conformanceLevel:
  - A
description:
  - Changing a widget (e.g. drop down) doesn't automatically take you somewhere else
filters:
interaction:
  - Keyboard
knowledgeToTest:
  - Easy
principal:
  - Understandable
priority:
  - Uncommon issue
responsibility:
  - Developer
severity:
  - Severe
successCriteria:
  - 3.2.2 On Input
testProcedure:
  - Keyboard
  - Manual
timeToTest:
  - Quick
topic:
  - Keyboard predictability
understandingScURL:
  - https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/on-input.html
userImpact:
order:
  - 47
---

# {{ title }}

## Design Notes

### Ensure users have control over context changes

All functionality should be predictable when people are navigating their way through a page.

Just navigating to, or changing the state of, a control should not cause anything surprising to happen. For example, on navigating to a radio button, the user focus should not be automatically moved elsewhere. Similarly, selecting a radio button should not automatically submit a form or otherwise trigger significant changes to a page.

Ensure submit buttons are provided for all forms. Don't indicate automated submissions or significant changes to pages in designs.

## Developer Notes

### Don’t unexpectedly change context in response to a onFocus or onChange event

All functionality should be predictable when people are navigating their way through a page.

All users, but particularly those using assistive technology, benefit from pages which behave predictably. When building pages, avoid implementing functionality which automatically triggers significant changes to the page — such as: automatically submitting forms or moving keyboard focus.

Don't write JavaScript which includes significant automatic changes. Instead, request an updated interface design, where appropriate  — for example ensuring a submit button is provided for form designs.

## Testing Notes

### Changing a widget (e.g. drop down) doesn't automatically take you somewhere else

Scripted events (for keyboard, mouse and touch) only fire when expected. Entering data or changing the setting of any user interface component does not automatically cause a change of context unless the user has been advised of the behaviour before using the component.

#### Steps to check

- use the keyboard navigate to all form controls and interactive elements where a user can enter data or change a setting of the element
- make sure there is not a change of context when data is entered or a setting is changed unless there are instructions provided beforehand

**Impact range:** Medium

**Test type:** Manual

**WCAG Reference:** [Understanding Success Criterion 3.2.2 On Input](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/on-input)
